[Music]
hello and welcome to the BBC good food
podcast with Tom courage I'm Orlando and
we're here today to talk about citing
ingredients cooking techniques and
general kitchen chat plus we have an
original Tom carriage recipe for you to
try out at home whether you're a
beginner or a budding chef hi welcome to
today's podcast today we're talking
about potatoes this is the stuff you
really want to know about potatoes is
the or mash the best on the block or a
bit of a flop or your roast is crisper
than anyone elses we're gonna give you
lots of new ideas if you're looking for
a change and make sure you're doing
things right but my first question for
Tom is if you don't need pasta rice or
potatoes for the rest of your life which
of those would you choose and now I know
what you're hoping me to say yeah
because the podcast is about potatoes so
you know I might throw all under the bed
oh yeah right definitely right no
potatoes come on I mean they're British
they're robust they're solid they're
seasonal they're beautiful so yeah
definitely gonna be what can I say right
up front thank you Tom why does everyone
love potatoes so much what is it about
them well they change their seasonal and
they're so adaptable you do so many
different things with them listen
everyone loves a roast potato mash
potato listen who doesn't love chips so
that you know they're so beautiful they
contain different flavors they change
all the time but also it's something
that we grow they're very British we're
a northern European country that has
root vegetables and potatoes the king of
them yeah yes they they come in so many
different shapes and forms and colors
and you say they change during the year
you saying that the flavor of them
changes during they were here or the
sort of potato that you get yeah well
everything everything changes so like in
in the summertime they're sweeter the
sugar content is higher and what happens
is that sugar content slowly turns into
starch and that's that's why that's
it's quite difficult to make good chips
in the summertime Oh fascinating now do
you have a particular favorite we're at
variety or does that change as well
during different times and during the
year so I'm I have to be a hundred
percent honest who we are very quite we
are very technical with the chips and
the potatoes that we use for in the
restaurant so in the restaurant world we
have a company that measures starch and
sugar content and then says these are
the best potatoes to make chips with or
roast these or the sort of thing that
you're looking for so I that and that
changes throughout the year so it's
hugely seasonal because different fields
different weather conditions different
it really does alter how you get very
crispy chips or beautiful roast potatoes
and that I mean it's so dependent on
that and and so I have no preference to
variety apart from when it comes to
things like new potatoes so there's some
small Cornish new potatoes absolutely
delicious but listen the king of new
potato has to be juicy royal it's just
the soil that's grown in the flavor that
it gives you contemptuously ruin a mile
away and the story of it and the shape
of it of course I was brought up in
Jersey so I'm a huge fan of Jersey rose
have you seen that they grow them on the
on the kind of cliff side yeah we
suspended on ramps to harvest it's
amazing I mean the things people do for
potatoes you know so many people don't
know that the way that those potatoes
are grown and that and where they can
get the flavor from and it does make
such a big difference now people talk
all the time about Maris Piper
now because we're not as scientific as
you when we go to the shops we just kind
of pick what is on offer there and Maris
Piper seems to be the kind of the one
that's never gonna let you down once you
say that it's true or is no 100% it's
kind of like a it's it's like an old
family estate car it does everything
that's like an old family estate car
dressed with like a big engine in it so
you can have fun in it if you're on your
own
however it gets the dogs and the kids in
so it's kind of like it's one of those
potatoes there's multi-use and it does
make good chips it makes a good Baker
that the the fresh mash is really nice
II so it's a good multi-purpose potato
you can't go far wrong with it when my
chips next go wrong I'm going to blame
the
time of year rather than myself
therefore that's exactly what you need
to do Tom where do you stand on these
colored potatoes because I'm not sure
about purple or black potatoes yellow
ones kind of fine but but what do you
think of those well they normally tend
to be quite waxy in terms of its texture
I think I mean if you're looking for a
cut vegetables have color carrots I mean
look at those everyone thinks they're
orange they started off on but you know
actually they started up they meant
style for today we were originally
purple yeah black and yellow and so that
there's many variants in them and it's
about the flavor what tastes the best I
mean for me it it's nice that they're
colored but I wouldn't pay any extra
money just because they're purple or
they're black
I suppose they look pretty on the plate
don't they if I want to put a on my
plate I'm not sure I want it perfect
well you're a food designer because
obviously you have to design your plate
to be visually amazing
whereas I just designing the plate to
look nice that evening so you know we
want to eat it but but you obviously
have to worry about the color of things
and I can imagine the hint of purple
could be a little bit beguiling for you
sometimes yeah to be honest I don't
really worry ever about color what I
worry about is product and is it being
showcased in its best way you allow
product on produce to sing for itself
and so if you can show if you can find
great produce in the first place and
allow it to be show itself and be very
very special that's the most important
and I have to be honest I think there
are better tasting potatoes out there
than purple ones right well that's very
reassuring to me that's that's what I
really wanted to hear I need a purple
potato to make your food great you just
need a good tasting potato absolutely
now where do you stand on potatoes as
part of a healthy diet you as someone
who has become really famous for your
reformed eating so the potatoes worry
you at all are you reaching for them in
a different way or yes reason we have
very different so I've kind of changed
my date so I lost well over ten stone by
doing um low carbohydrates where
potatoes weren't on the menu they were
they were like they are
in carb so they're higher in sugars and
they do starches it's all comma so I
went okay ditch the potatoes by the way
you interrupt so you look I'm very fine
form if I might say thank you very much
sitting you thank you but I've recently
changed you're looking at a calorie
controlled diet um just because I'm a
kind of like my gym training in the way
that I do stuff and fitness wise has
changed so where I need to get
carbohydrates into my diet and I think a
lower calorie diet now suits me a little
more as being more balanced so potatoes
are in there however like deep-frying
them that special treat stuff that's not
everyday thing but lightly boiled I mean
the new potatoes mash but without with
zero fat yogurt through it rather than
loads of cream and butter that this
begins to suit my diet a little bit more
however cream and butter are amazing if
you want to make the best mash that's
where that's where you've got to go but
that is special occasion and treat stuff
so potatoes can be part of a healthy
diet 100% so you couldn't you could make
mash without the cream and the butter by
adding did you say low-fat grillak zero
fat Greek yogurt and I stir it through
lower fat creme fraiche all of those
sort of things that take flavors and
make it absolutely beautiful it's not as
rich and as indulgent as you would think
super-special
mash is however it still made you can
mix it with semi skim milk you know all
of those sort of things that loosen up
and lighten it and these flavors you can
get if you buy beautiful tasting
potatoes and then grate nutmeg on it
season it up beautifully all of those
sort of things create beautiful flavors
definitely potatoes are part of a very
very it can be part of a very varied and
healthy diet and so those lighter things
give a kind of not an illusion but they
give a mouth fear of something silkier
without actually piling on the fat
exactly that yeah however if one did one
if it is that special occasion emotion
and we want to super our mashed potatoes
can you tell me the process by which you
make you make your dream mashed potatoes
okay so the way we make it at the
two-star restaurant of the to start Anna
Faris's we
get very well every table is a special
occasion every time we want to get it
right so so we gently simmer and not
boil rapidly because if you're boiling
rapidly what's happening this is
breaking down the potato from the
outside quite quickly and that potato
dough starts to absorb the water okay
and you don't want watery mash so you
gently simmer poach him in salted water
basically the potatoes until they're
cooked all the way through okay then we
did you cut them quite small chunks now
they're fairly big again don't cut too
small because again if you cook them cut
them small and cook them very quickly
they'd start taking on the water you
better get that waterlogged look and
when you drain them there's this kind of
they almost coming out it's not you're
losing a lot of the potato because it's
kind of leached out isn't it yeah so you
don't want to do things and poach them
until they're just cooked away but nice
and gentle yeah sometimes in recipe
books you tell you that takes 20 minutes
however it probably takes closer to 40
on a gentle poach rise and then drain
them in a colander or on it's probably
the best way of doing it and then leave
them for a couple of minutes just to dry
out a bit okay yeah maybe stir and once
or twice it doesn't matter if they break
up too much then we put them through a
potato ricer a rice though yeah and then
we put them through a very fine mesh
afterwards so we roast them and then a
secondary mesh so we really work it and
then we probably put about two-thirds
equal parts butter and cream and
two-thirds weight of potato two-thirds
weight of butter and cream goes into the
same amount of potato Wow
it absorbs that in 30 area and then
heavily seasoned you know it's rich
smooth creamy delicious it's a lot of
work yeah to create something beautiful
I mean I'm with you on the rice that
I've got a rice that I've had for about
20 years and it's - it is a marvelous
plastic riser that just carries on
rising in it's brilliant but I hate the
action of putting things shoving things
through sips
it seems to use muscles in my arms that
aren't very comfortable it's very tiring
to give that to the junior chef to do or
what actually genius chefs probably
start off doing it or go see the chefs
will jump on it it's kind of like quite
a therapeutic
is a chef it's in a kitchen lots of jobs
like that are the monotony it's quite
good fun because it's a switch off is a
job that you've got to get done and you
compete against yourself at kitchens are
quite um high adrenaline environments so
you're always driving yourself and
always pushing yourself you can't
daydream and drift along in the kitchen
you have to drive yourself so get a mash
put through a potato ricer and then
through that through the fine sieve here
you are push push push push push and it
creates an energy level that gets you
ready for lunch service okay well I'll
just have to persevere with that and
carry on doing because I know the result
is fantastic because I've done it once
or twice but it has punished my upper
arms and I haven't particularly enjoyed
it
safes going to the gym and the
consistency sometimes I get so
enthusiastic with the brush in the cream
that it ends up a bit sloppy and and
kind of oozes a bit too much on the
plate do you watch it very carefully or
do you beat it in yeah keep working it
and even if you find that it's too
sloppy
keep working it and don't working keep
working it keep working it keep working
it and it kind of it will kind of absorb
it and help thicken it and give it I
suppose a strength of character just
keep pushing it and there's a myth
around that if you beat mashed potatoes
it might not be amiss with a plastic
spatula that does something to emulsify
the mashed potato is that do you use a
plastic spoon or a time plastic spatula
all the time and it's kind of like
slowly stretches the glutens in it and
the starches and that helps to absorb
the cream and the butter and the more
you work it yeah plastic spatula is
always the way to do it not a whisk
right okay well I think that my mash is
going to be top of its form from now on
as long as I can just bite the bullet on
getting it through the sieve yeah could
we talk chips
yeah chips are as I know you might not
want to talk about chips as they're you
know saved up for very special occasions
but there's something that you know
there are a real high art form of the
potato and I'd love to know what you do
in your restaurants with the chips I
mean I can copy at home yeah I mean I
don't want to bore you to death with it
but they are the trolley today are the
triple cooked ones and we triple cooked
chips because
now I'm sure people to make chips before
where you put you cut them and you drop
them in the fryer and you fry until
they're crispy you put it on the plane
by the time you sit down to have them to
eat they've gone soft again and the
reason why that is is because a potato
is pretty much mostly water so you've
made the outside nice and crispy but the
inside has still got loads of water in
it which was created steam so you're
steaming the chip from the inside out so
where you've got it crispy there's still
too much water content inside the potato
that's why your chips go soggy so the
purpose of triple cooking is to get rid
of as much moisture as possible so the
first cooking process is being blanched
or steamed cooked all the way through
very similar to like we were talking
about with making the mashed potatoes
cook very gently and then we gently lift
them out with the steps it's not you
know that's in water the first water in
water right yeah yeah and then you take
them out and you leave them to dry on a
like a cake rack so you gently remove
them from the water with a slotted spoon
and you put them on a cake rack and you
leave them to dry and when they dry what
happens is the outside of it begins to
crackle and break up and it dries out
and that kind of crackle then when you
put it into a fryer at 140 degrees so
that first and that first process of
cooking you can leave until they go cold
it's no problem
then you drop them into a fryer at 140
degrees and you cook them until well
pretty much most of the bubbling stops
so and if you've got the right content
sugar and starch they won't cut her up
too much then you take them out and you
could put them in a tray and you can
leave them to go cold that's no problem
leave them in the fridge until you need
them 180 degrees throw them back into
the fryer and that's when they get
really nice and crispy and those first
two cooking processes we're getting rid
of moisture the last one is crisping up
the outside and it was stay crisp
because you've got rid of the moisture
from the first two processes sorry if I
sent you to sleep with the chip
explanation I've been making notes
I've actually been scribbling that down
so that I can I can replicate that when
I'm feeling really I really want to do
the job properly but again it's key it
goes back to the potato so if you've got
a potato with too much sugar which is
why it's quite hard
to make chips in the summertime where
the sugars are very nice as sweet and
that's why it's new potatoes are sweet
and delicious then when you're coloring
them in the fryer they go dark too
quickly before you've got rid of the
moisture so you still get soggy dark
chips or if the starch content is too
high they just go really hard and
crunchy without having too much color on
them so finding that perfect balance and
that's where a Maris Piper going back to
our family estate car does the job and
the Maris piper is normally good all
year round fantastic there's an awful
lot to this cooking isn't there you know
you think old chips just you know cut up
some chips and put them in a pan but
you're doing everything like three times
at least in your kitchen to make it
better than we can do it at home is that
is that what you set your age oh yeah
what exactly that is it's just to wreck
it I've never thought food should be
challenging in terms of flavor
combinations or the food that we should
be eating I have always been food should
make people feel comfortable actually
it's not food its environment and
restaurant and pub or whatever it is you
do people should feel happy to be there
the environment should feel comfortable
it should be a great one to be in and if
that means that you can have mashed
potato and chips then you go okay well
that's what people want and I love that
as well how do I make it better how do I
make it the best and that's what I'm
looking into it so mash you understand
chips everyone understands I just want
them to be the best chips people eat or
the best mash that people eat
yeah I might sounds to me like they will
be but but the other thing that I'm
interested in here is that you you seem
to have a very kind of caressing touch
for these potatoes you're caring for
them in all their different processes
and giving them you know a lot of love
along the way whereas I think one has
the impression that you know it's a
world of you know knives being thrown in
a professional kitchen and a great deal
of violence being done on on ingredients
but you've seen much kinder than that
all the best places respect the
ingredient you respect the ingredient
really respected but you seem to respect
it from you seem to physically respect
it as well 100% but I mean it's bitly I
mean this is from a professional point
of view that the last point that we do
as chefs is the final part
how long has it taken a potato to grow
you know someone has put that into a
field someone's planted the seed someone
looked after it grown it then harvested
it brought it to you aged it in a
machete or a warehouse or whatever has
packed it sent it to you and we're the
last little bit of putting it in a fryer
ascendance here we you know the same
when it comes to at the same when it
comes to livestock or it comes to
poultry or it comes to whatever it takes
all of these things have taken a process
of time to get that the kitchen is
actually probably the last little bit so
we are the last Guardians before it goes
to the guests and that's the most
important thing to allow that journey to
be shown and of that produce in its best
life fantastic we're going to come to
roast potatoes in just a moment and I
know that you've got the ultimate way to
do roast potatoes which I think will
just massacre the world of roast
potatoes didn't take them take them by
storm
but I wanted to ask you four before that
what's the most popular potato dish in
your restaurant is it the mass or the
chips chips chips chips chips because
because we do them so beautifully
perhaps yeah but also I think when
people go out to eat they feel that they
are celebrating it or doing something
special or just it's a nice occasion or
it's something so they treat themselves
you know not many people really make
chips at home how you know the only
chips that most people have at home the
bag from the freezer onto a tray and put
any other yeah 25 minutes you know it's
kind of like actually going out and
having real potatoes treated with love
and respect stripped okay they're not
healthy or the healthiest however they
are special occasion stuff and they do
taste great so we had chips are by far
the most popular yeah when you have some
from a packet they just remind you how
good the real thing is I've I don't yeah
you've ever had anything success with
chips were in packet but I never have
know as far as I know I know I think we
straight people struggle to find it I
mean we are we do work quite closely we
are looking at working quite closely
with a company to try and help develop
something for us regarding how can we
get great chips like that frozen and it
still it's very very difficult it's a
really difficult process I know that
some people feel that there's something
in potatoes that calms them down and
makes them feel good do you get that
from potatoes or or or other foods do
you do you find that they mean I don't
know the style
in that or if there's a medical thing
but there is something that's very
comforting about potato so but I think
that's root vegetables on the whole and
I think that's and I think potatoes fall
I'm fit into that world of comfortable
eating you know it's something that
makes you feel happy whether it's a
steamed pudding whether it's a casserole
whether it's your mum's roast dinner all
of those sort of things I think potatoes
fall into that space so yeah I can I
could see why people go this is nice
it's filling they're robust they're
hearty they're wholesome they feel you
know there's so everything about them
makes you feel like you're getting a hug
you know I can get where people yet feel
like that definitely yeah and you you
you had them as a child and there's
nothing to they're not dislike a
bullying if you ever met anyone who
doesn't like potato and again do you
have a thing for gratin dauphinois
because that's that's a favorite of mine
and I've got a recipe where you slice
them very fine it and then you bring to
a simmer in the milk and that kind of
kick starts the process and kind of
brings the starch out and it means that
it's very sort of mousse like the
finished gratin dauphinois yeah
doo-doo-doo-doo to Crescent I've known
the restaurants busy to everything don't
you yeah at some point we do it's it's
not on all the time however the
methodology of making it so it's very
similar to how you say how yours was
except I don't cook it in the middle so
we bring the milk and cream up to the
boil with garlic and seasoning and
heavily heavily seasoned and then you
slice potatoes and you lay the potatoes
right down and again and again through
the tray and then the hot milk you pour
over the top then another layer and then
the hot cream over the top and then
another layer and you keep layering it
through so what's happening is the
warmth is beginning to kind of leach the
starches out of the potatoes and then
you finish it with probably about a
centimeter of cream above the potatoes
maybe just a little bit less and you put
it into a low oven and for me this is
this is all about low and slow cooking
so it goes into the oven around about a
hundred and forty hundred and fifty
degrees and then every 20 minutes you
take it out and you get a fish slice and
you just press the potatoes press them
down press and down back in never 20
minutes press and it feels like you go
in nowhere but eventually
what happens is all the starches begin
to squeeze those potatoes together and
it's that slow cooking process it's a
bit a little bit like making clotted
cream that the moisture is beginning to
evaporate from the cream so that's
reducing Dame the starches are coming
out and then by the end of it you end up
with this kind of like a solid cream
infused potato block with a layer on the
top and then you just turn the oven up
to about 200 for the last 15 minutes and
leave it to grata mate on the top take
it and then you've got it and it's not
split it's not separated it's just this
beautiful very simple and wonderfully
made dough and once that's definitely
the best way to do it oh it sounds
marvelous did you develop that yourself
or is that a French way of doing it I
look I learn that often chef that's you
know years of training so I learned that
from a chef called Alex Bentley who used
to be head chef at restaurant called
mission max where I was sous chef ER and
it was quite an Alex learned that method
off a chef called Phil Britten so it's
all of these methods come down and Phil
Britain used to work for Nikola Denis
who is a three Michelin star so all of
the all of those very beautiful simple
cooking methods of chefs learn but
there's so much about it it's not rushed
you can't go home tonight and go I'm
just gonna make a dough for Mars for tea
you could do a black easy quick version
however something like that takes three
hours you know it's a case of love and
touch and understanding knowing when to
stop pressing go and actually that's set
enough now and they're all things that
come with practice I'm getting quite go
hungry here but we have got something to
eat in a minute so if we can if we can
only hold off that'll be a treat just to
finish with I wanted to ask about crisps
have you ever made crisps that my
granddad used to make crisps in a frying
pan
yeah we make Chris we've done different
types of crisps and we do things where
you dehydrate potato starch and then
deep-fry it so a little bit like a
little bit like quavers you know that
kind of like puffed up starchy flavor
and we've done things like that but then
there's um something very famous called
pommes go fret which is a kind of like a
crisp that you traditionally served with
game where it's that crisscross oh I
know yeah and you take the potato on a
jet on one of those big man's islands
and you turn it and you turn it and you
so each time is a quarter-turn and as
you slice it through it's got this
lovely like crinkle cut crisscross kind
of miniature lettuce isn't it exactly
that and then yeah and then it's a very
similar method to the chips but we just
gently blanch them and only cook em one
so in boiling or simmer in salted water
cook until they just go soft leaving to
dry in a cloth and then deep-fry them at
180 degrees and they go really nice and
crispy as seasoned them after and so
yeah they're they're kind of their their
garnish for game dishes but they are
they're beautiful they lay a beautiful
crisp do you have a buyer bag of crisps
I haven't bought back a Christian ages I
gotta be honest I tried like I tried
being a good boy so eight but my little
man he loves them like eki King loves
crisps I mean we can fret the ones that
are in rings that you'd like to put on
your fingers and then eat one at a time
he loves their ease favorite if you if
you could have any bag Chris though
which would be your favorite flavor
pickled onion monstermunch that's the
easiest question next I want to talk
about roast potatoes with you because
people obsess about roast potatoes and
everyone seems to have their own secret
for doing it their own little twist and
and something they picked up from
somewhere of doing it but I know that
you have got a killer recipe but to
start off with a question that we've had
from our Twitter following le underscore
Morris 89 has asked us what's the best
type of potato for roasting again it
will come down to season and that's
really it's such a such a easy Blacky
question to throw away but I'd really
mean it
it's so difficult as well but
seasonality is big the one thing that I
would say avoid massively in those great
big washed baking potatoes you bow for
too long because they contain so much
water and moisture and they they're
rubbish at making crispy they just
they're just too watery
is that true big potatoes generally that
they're going to be a bit they're likely
to be a bit more watery
no no not generally I mean again it just
has variety a cake exactly I mean the
best thing I say is go to your local
farmers market find a
Tayler with dirt on wash it yourself
roast it that's gonna be the best potato
it would taste amazing it is fantastic
ones to use alternatively if you're in
the supermarket and you're looking at
all the things there go back to the
family favorite the the the estate car
of the marriage paper that's the one
that will be that's the one that will do
it that's why Maris paper everyone knows
it because it takes so many boxes I live
in Devon and when I buy potatoes with
mud on them and I've washed them the mud
is bright red is the most scary color
but how amazing - the potatoes taste oh
yeah I mean I don't it what the red it I
think it's iron or something like that
yeah they really do like growing in in
Devon's soil and the rain that we get of
course but fresh from the earth yeah
tasty amazing those are definitely the
best way ever once they've gone through
the process of coming from the ground
there then go into the washing plant the
processing plant then get them bagged
and sent to the supermarkets you know
all of that time that it's taken that's
when all the sum of so much of the
nutrients that and flavor that come from
a potato begin to disappear if you're
lucky enough to have a little farm near
you that sells potatoes buy them every
time they're always going to taste the
best
still to come on BBC good foods podcast
with Tom carriage let's make a vow to
eat it fast
shamon yeah okay well no they're not bad
mmm you might have to move them out of
the way because I might eat mmm
is that my recipe yeah it is you're mr.
P that's right
this recipe for roast potatoes which
you'll find on BBC good food comm
there's something bit unusual about it I
think that people listening are gonna
say oh you were to use duck fat or goose
fat you don't use them don't film goose
fat what you just use straight plain
vegetable oil unflavored it clean it's
clean in its crisps not olive oil
you know olive oil again taint its
flavour I mean I get it you can use duck
fat if you want you can use goose fat
you can use olive oil but that's another
flavor that you're adding to the potato
why are you adding flavour to something
that already should be amazing what the
what are the two things that are
beautiful about roast potatoes are the
flavor of the potato the crispy outside
of it that everyone loves a crispy roast
potato those are the things that you
should be aiming at making special
forget about the flavor of the oil you
can drizzle on all olive oil afterwards
if you wanted to serve them with roast
duck just don't roast them in duck fat
there's no need what you want to do if
you use interest cheap ordinary
vegetable oil is cook them in that
because it makes them nice and clean and
crisp and tasty and they're delicious
well we're going to taste your roast
potatoes now and I'm really very excited
about that
the there's that something that you do
to the outside of the potatoes which I
find quite remarkable because I know
that people talk about stuffing them
some people draw the fork over them to
make little lines on them and kind of
give them a bit of grip on on the edge
but you go one step further so there's
like there's a couple of different ways
okay so the first way that we do them in
the restaurant is we cook them again a
bit like making mash where you blanch
them and cook them all the way through
and then leave them to cool on a rack
and then you roast them in the oven okay
so that way and a great big roasting
tray with a nice layer of oil in get
that nice and hot and don't crowd the
potatoes in the pan that's the most
important no matter what method you use
don't cry them in a pan because then it
creates steam and the more you create
steam the HAR
is going to get those are all moisture
problem again moisture is the enemy with
potatoes yes that you're trying to get
out this whole time yeah to get crisp
and to get the flavor more kind of
condensed exactly exactly but there is a
bit of a nicer failsafe way so in the
restaurants will do that and then we've
got great big trays we've got great big
ovens we you know they're chefs doing it
but at home if you want to get a nice
crispy skin a nice way of doing it is if
you cook them all the way through not
boiling but just gently simmered but
cook them all the way through that thing
that people do where you put the lid on
pass the water off and then shake the
tin don't do that anymore don't like
there's no need for that what you want
to do is cook them all the way through
to this soft just gently lift them out
and leave them on to one side to cool
again with your you're caressing your
ingredient loving it but then the two
most overcooked potatoes mash them up
okay break them up mash them up and then
mix into that some of the cooking
liquors and water just to make this kind
of like wallpaper paste this kind of and
then roll the potatoes in that and that
will give you this lovely kind of like
very thin coating of potato mash and
that will go really nice and crispy okay
so as you put that into hot oil but
again don't steam it and that will
guarantee you having beautiful crispy
roast potatoes it is a little bit of
extra work I know but it is so worth
I've never heard of that it's really
quite a different approach I mean I I a
few days ago I encountered chips in
batter which I thought was quite her and
then I got both think it was a picture
of them and I had to say what on earth
has happened to those chips and he said
it in Exmouth it's a fish and chip shop
that does the chips in batter I mean I
do want to try one they were bright
orange I don't know how they went Orange
it was normal batter apparently I think
I've been happy yeah I do I think I've
seen there and had them but I know I
have but it's not something that you
have taken and run with is it Tom no but
it was very good for that kind of chip
shop style next layer of something
that's quite interesting I have had them
I have been there it they are very they
are very very good well I'm off to
Exmouth then but before that I'm going
to make an exciting crinkling sound
see this is not sound effects anyone
this is at your actual foil coming off
your actual real potatoes we've got the
real oh look
sublime and we've got the real Forks but
I don't know we don't need before I
think we just grabbed and we've got a
little pot of sea salt as well yeah for
a DS sprinkle yeah yeah okay yeah I'll
just call you see so on don't be shy
can we hear this it can we hear this see
sort of spring to the happy sound of sea
salt being sprinkled can we hear that
can we hear that sprinkly so lovely
delicious aromas this is a this
essential trip for everyone listening
we've got the aromas of the roast
potatoes tantalizing everyone they're
golden they're lovely
they're a the most beautiful colour
aren't they and they've got lots of they
do feel quite crispy and even though
they've been sat there with to see this
is a problem right what's happen is
they're warm and you've put tin foil on
the top so that's created a bit of steam
yeah and then our old enemy steam
exactly however so they still feel quite
crispy in it yeah they do and so I mean
that's not bad that was our fault for
talking talking too much
next time well eat the no no my fault
entirely but next time we'll eat the
potato if something comes up hot let's
make a vow to eat it fast shall we yeah
I choked oh no they're not bad mmm you
might have to move them out of the way
because I might eat them mm-hmm
can you hear us actually eating that
might be a bit embarrassing is that my
recipe yeah it is your recipe I know
they enjoyed making it as well because
these were this work these were crafted
for us on the next floor by the good
food test kitchen they've done a
remarkable job they they they're
invincible as far as I'm concerned they
they can do they can do anything but not
that your recipe was particularly
challenging it just got the extra step
of making the potato paste and rolling
them in it but you can tell there's that
paste on it can't you even tell me
there's an extra bit of flavour and
crisp and like you can see that there's
like a coating on it it feels like it's
been painted on and that's the bit
that's really crispy and lovely mmm and
can you hear it can everyone hear is
these
sort of jus silly but munching our
potatoes because we really have enjoyed
those with a big smile on our faces well
I have come away with from I have come
away from today inspired to up my potato
game try a bit harder and to use your
caressing action at every stage of a
potato and to give the potato a bit more
respect than I had for it sooner give
the potato some love
so thank you very much tom pleasure
[Music]
thank you for listening to today's show
you'll find the recipe and thousands
more on BBC good food comm if you have a
minute we'd love to hear from you on
Twitter Facebook or Instagram at BBC
good food
[Music]